>> Melkey: Yeah, okay, moving on, so
this gives us the ability to create users,
now, let's talk about authentication.
Okay, I'm gonna switch over to here.
So I'm gonna briefly talk about this,
there's different types auth methods,
right?
I'm sure most of us,
if you've used auth before,
you know that typically you
have used one of these three.
And the three that I could think of,
and I'm sure they're probably more,
but the main three that I'm aware of
is stateful token authentication,
stateless token authentication and
an OAuth 2.0, all right?
I'm going to briefly give you
an overview of all three, and
I'm going to tell you which
one we're going to use.
OAuth 2.0 I'm sure we're very familiar
with this, it's whenever you use
an application, and it gives you
the prompt to sign in with Google,
sign in with GitHub, sign with X,
Y, Z, you can sign in with this.
TLDR is using a third party
provider like Google,
GitHub, to basically store and
validate who you are.
If you have a Google account and
they know that you're legit,
if GitHub knows you're legit,
we can use that logic,
that kind of ramp to also validate if
you're legit for our application, right?
If you're good enough for Google and
GitHub, maybe a good enough for us,
that's kind of how I like to view it.
There is a lot of really good pros to
this, essentially Google and GitHub,
they store everything
rather in your system.
You have to store their password, you have
to store all these other information.
You may store things related to their user
profile on your site, but in terms of like
things that could go pretty nasty,
like passwords, gonna leave that to them.
There is this possibility that you
may be storing a token, right?
So typically when you get a redirect from
Google or Github or whatever third-party
identity provider, it's like, hey, here
is this token, it is a temporary token.
It has a short lifespan,
which you then can
basically handshake to get a longer
term token with the identity provider.
And then how you handle the token tool
up to you can store in your database,
you can store in a client that's how
you authenticate a user with OAuth 2.0.
Super fast implement lots of
libraries that does it, lots of Pros,
some cons is like you obviously
don't have access to their data,
and you don't really have
the full scope of the user.
And also,
you're dependent on a third party.
If Google goes down and your only way of
authenticating is through OAuth 2.0 point
using Google,
you're kind of out of luck, right?
So pros and cons, so stateless token auth
is something we are all familiar with,
this is JSON web token or
a JWT pronounced.
And here, this is where everything
is essentially encoded into a token,
that is basically
encrypted into three parts.
A JWT has the hashing algorithm
that's used to create the JWT,
it has the signing signature of who
created and issued that JWT, and
then it has information that you
choose to encode into the JWT itself.
This is typically stored on client side,
like in memory so on,
like a cookie or local storage.
You'd get a JWT, store it there and
you use it to authenticate, and
this is great, right?
It's typically done in memory.
All the information is kind of
contained within the token itself.
And a really good pro is that you don't
need to perform an additional database
lookup to really authenticate
who that user is,
because that will be typically
stored on the token itself.
Now there are some cons to this, such as,
once you issue the JWT,
you can't revoke it.
You have to change the signing method of
what you use to sign that JWT, right?
JWT, JWTs typically have like, expiry of
24 hours, but let's say you issue it and
then you get a call that says, hey,
my account was hacked, it logged in.
What do you do now?
You have to change the signing method,
of your system because you
can't retract that JWT at all.
Once it's out in the system, all you can
do is when you when it comes back as
a request, say that that
signature is no longer valid,
because we've revoked that or
we changed the signature, okay?
That's gonna affect all the JWT on your
system in case you do it in a pretty
creative and intense way.
Another thing, common with JWTs is
if you store the wrong info on them,
they could be pretty easily hacked.
Anything on the client side like cookies,
local storage, it's fairly safe but
nowadays, like a lot of
things are getting hacked,
a lot of people are getting really smart.
Again, I hate to use the example of LLMs,
but
they're tools to be used to
do this kind of stuff, right?
So you typically want to encode the JWT
with like superficial information,
never store the password or
anything important in a JWT, right?
And then the last one is
stateful token auth, okay?
And this one is the hash,
the token is actually stored server
side in a database with a user ID and
expiry field, these tokens, think of it as
just a different table in our database.
It's gonna have a token table, that's
gonna have who it belongs to the scope of
it, when it expires and
how can we use it, right?
The real good pro about this is our back
end maintains control over the token
throughout the entirety of the token.
So we issued that token, the users can use
it, but if we detect they're a bad user,
we can easily just nuke that thing,
from one call in our database,
that thing's gone.
We don't change any signing methods,
we don't do anything like that,
just that thing's gone, that's it,
we clean our hand out of it, right?
Because we have control of
it in terms of our database.
The con to that is,
that requires an additional database call.
You have to check the integrity of that
token through this new tokens table,
which hence token handler which
double hence token data store.
And I wrote this little snippet I don't
know why I probably feel a little
zesty, I guess.
But even with a JWT, you probably
would be doing additional database
call to pull additional info even with
a JWT, so I mean, is it truly a con?
We can debate that,
it does take a bit more time to set up,
so you can just use the library
like JSON or whatever and use it.
You actually have to do a little bit of
setup, so we're gonna be using this one.
We're gonna be using stateful token auth,
it's rolling your own auth,
some would say.
I think that really blew up in 2023,
if you have a strong opinion on it,
obviously, I understand it and
acknowledge it, I do think that was
really blown out of proportion.
If you're not creating the own hashing
algorithm, I think you should be okay if
you use a shot 256, that's already
made by computer science theorists,
I think you are okay to handle
token authentication yourself.
So with that,
that's what we're going to be exploring.